Hi, there.
I hope you really enjoyed
the Jupyter MySQL exercises, and
are starting to feel very comfortable with
the SQL syntax we are learning this week.
In this video I'm going to show you
how to use the interface we are going
to use in this course to interact and
analyze our Dillards dataset,
which is kept in a Teradata database.
The overall interface we're going to
use is called, Teradata Viewpoint.
The Teradata Viewpoint actually has many
capabilities that we aren't going to
use in this course at all.
The part we are going to use
is called SQL Scratchpad.
That's the part that allows us to
write and execute SQL queries.
So to learn how to use SQL Scratchpad
within Teradata Viewpoint,
I want you to follow the instructions
with the materials or
that are described in the materials
in the course website.
About how to get your own username and
password to the Teradata interface.
Once you have that username and
password emailed to you,
I want you to go to the website that's
described in the course materials that
points you to the Teradata interface.
Once you go to the website,
it should look something like this.
So I want you to enter the password
that was emailed to you.
Or enter the username and
password and log in.
Then you're going to see
this general Interface.
Go to, Select System > UATD.
It's going to ask you to type in
your username and password again, so
go ahead and type in the same username and
password you just did in the past screen.
All of the rest of this can be kept as
default, so Authentication Mechanism
should be default, Character Set,
UTF8, go ahead and press Connect.
Once it's connected you'll see over
here in the Object Browser UATD.
I want you to press on the plus button, so
that it shows you all the different things
that are held within this interface.
And I want you to put
in UA_Dillards.
And you'll see that it comes up.
It filters all the results, and
it comes up with these two options.
The one we are going to
use is the UA_DILLARDS.
So if you press the plus button here,
it will show you all the different
parts within this database.
And if you expand the tables part,
it will show you all the different
tables in this database.
So over here on the left is where we
can actually write our queries and
see our results.
This part up here is where we
can write our queries, and
this part down here is where
the results will appear.
So the very first thing you should do,
before you start doing anything else,
is you should make the UA_DILLARDS
your default database.
Do that, you write in Database ua_dilards,
and then press Run.
And you'll see that it's
loading its results, and
it'll say zero rows processed when it's
finished making it the default database.
Then you're ready to run some queries.
So let's for example, try something like.
This should give us the top
100 rows from department info.
So go ahead and press Run.
And you'll see all the results down here.
And like the Jupyter interface,
the Teradata interface will also
limit the number of rows you're going to
see in each one of these panes.
But it will tell you what the total
amount of output would be
if it didn't limit the display.
Now if I was to write another query here,
it would just overwrite
the results down here.
But you can pin this results to look
at them later by pressing this button.
So if you press the pin results,
it now labels this pinned one.
I can put in a different query And run it.
And you see that in Query 2, which is
what I just ran, these are the results.
But my results from before,
from my original query,
SELECT TOP 100 * FROM deptinfo,
are still retained.
I can also pin my Query 2 results by again
pressing the pin result button here.
I can unpin them so
I don't save them anymore simply
by clicking the pin button again.
So you can see, if I hover over it,
it says, Unpin results.
So just click on that.
And now when I write another query,
the first pin results will disappear.
So, if I do something like this,
You'll see that the Pinned 1 results
are from the query I just ran.
So it says, top 20 skew,
but the results from
the query I ran above,
are here in Query 2.
So far I showed you what would happen
if we randomly one query at a time.
But the scratchpad does give us the option
of running multiple queries at a time.
So if we unpin this result and
we put in two queries here, remember
that the important thing will be that in
order to run multiple queries, you have to
have a semicolon at the end of each query.
Otherwise, the database won't know
that they're two separate queries.
So in order to run both queries at the
same time, come over to the Run options.
Go to the dropdown and
you'll see it says, Run Selected Queries.
Select both queries And
you'll see that there's one tab for
Query 1, and
one tab for Query 2, and
it ran them sequentially.
You could also run just
one of them at a time.
So if I wanted to run just the bottom one,
I could select it and
then say Run Selected Query and
it would only run the bottom one.
Another thing you can do from
this dropdown that's very
useful is you can save the query.
So you could either save all
the queries or save the selected query,
and this will let you save it permanently.
So the pin capability I was showing you
before only works for a given session.
Once you log out all the results in your
pinned results tab won't be there anymore.
But when you save queries they will
be there when you sign in to your
account later.
So this is if you want to save
your queries permanently.
So if you press Save Selected Query,
you can name it.
And then you would be able to find it
later By going to the Load button.
We see, if you hover over the Load button,
that you can either get your saved
queries or look at you queries history.
Go ahead and press Load, you can see
this is the one query that I saved.
So if I press Load,
it will bring it up again.
It just appended it to the queries I had,
so let me erase them and do that again.
And that was the query I ran before,
and I could now run it again.
But you could also go
to the History tab and
this would show you all the different
queries you've run during this session.
And you could click on any one of them And
load it, and rerun it again as well.
So you can see that overall the SQL
scratchpad interface is very simple and
very straightforward.
The main things you need to know are that
the table information is written
over here.
This is where you write your queries.
This is where the output comes.
I didn't like that result.
That one should have
had sku instead of sky.
You can save your queries over here.
Or run only selected ones.
And you can load your queries here.
The only other thing you need
to know is this button up here.
This is very useful.
This is where the help is.
If you press on this little
icon that has a question mark,
you'll see a really comprehensive
collection of help information.
In particular, what I think you should
focus on is the Teradata Viewpoint.
So if you click on that plus button,
it will expand all the options.
And the part that you should
care about the SQL Scratchpad.
So if you expand that, and
click on SQL Scratchpad,
you'll see all of these different options
that will tell you the details about how
to use the query box, the results,
the history tab, or the save tab.
So feel free to explore these
if you have any questions.
I'm sure that they will be very helpful.
And with that, you are ready to
analyze the Dillards data set
using the Teradata Viewpoint and
SQL Scratchpad interface.
You might have noticed that I used
a keyword in some of the queries I just
wrote that you haven't seen yet.
That keyword is top.
Teradata uses top instead of limit
to limit the output if it's queries.
It's one of the few differences between
the MySQL and Teradata syntaxes.
Make sure you look at the course website
for materials that describe some
other differences between the syntax
that Teradata and MySQL uses.
Those same materials will also help
prepare you for the quiz this week.
This quiz is going to be based on
queries you write by yourself to analyze
the Dillards data set using
the Teradata interface.
I'm sure you're going to do a great job.
Have fun, good luck,
and I'll see you soon.